### December 24th, 2025 (Christmas Eve)

### **Attendees:**

* Lee Calcote, Saurabh Raghuvanshi, Kishore B, Raunak Madan, Suhani,   
* Kaivalaya Dua, Himani Sahu, Parthiv Saikia, Rajesh Nagarajan, Kavitha Karunakaran  
* Hussaina Begum, Charan Naidu, APIPAWE KATOTO Daniel,  Jagpreet Singh Rahi, Yelsin Sepulveda , Jeet Burman

*Release in-progress: [v0.9.0](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296) [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/6)*

### **Topics:**

* \[Miss Suhani & Raunak\] PR Review ESLint CI Fix  
  * PR: [\#16661](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/16661) | Issue: [\#16657](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/16657)  
  * Review PR fixing ESLint CI to run in check-only mode.  
    Removed auto-commit behavior from CI and added separate make targets for lint checks.  
* \[Kavitha Karunakaran\] Review simple PR for correcting hyperlinks in README documentation (PR: [\#55](https://github.com/meshery/.github/pull/55)), Issue: [\#54](https://github.com/meshery/.github/issues/54)  
  * [Contributing Guides ↆ](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing) \- idiomatic golang \- coding conventions. Are these enforced   
* \[Shrikant\] Review related to adapter plugin details in Notification Center \- PR [\#16733](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/16733)  
* \[Raunak Madan\] Fix linting errors in MeshSync [\#517](https://github.com/meshery/meshsync/pull/517)  
* \[Charan Naidu\]: Enable inline renaming of connections [\#16751](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/16751)   
* \[Himani Sahu\] [Add Kanvas Tutorial \#2](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/16749)  
* \[Jeet Burman\] \[ Demonstration following feedback on PR : [PR Link](https://github.com/meshery-extensions/shape-builder/pull/107) \]  
* \[Kaivalaya Dua\] Raised Issue [\#518](https://github.com/meshery/meshsync/issues/518https://github.com/meshery/meshsync/issues/518), Story of issue [\#16669](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/16669) context: [Slack convo](https://mesheryio.slack.com/archives/C011VPREG2Z/p1765883404654609)   
* \[APIPAWE KATOTO Daniel\] \[UI\] Close sidebar on outside click / route change (mobile) \#16698 [link](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/16698)

**Backlog:**

* \[Kavitha Karunakaran\] Do we have any links to coding guidelines that are followed across projects? I am sorry I am new here..   
* For New Year’s Eve Edition, a look into 2026 and a discussion \- roadmap 2026 \- v1.0.  
  * Functional Architecture Specifications  
  * Alternative meeting agenda: dedicated topics.  
  * Consistently reserve a portion of the meeting time for a particular topic.  
  * AI / LLMs and how we use them, don’t use them, and so on.  
    * Gemini   
* \[name\] agenda item  
* \[name\] agenda item