### September 10th, 2025

### **Attendees**:   

* Yash Sharma, Lee Calcote, Nikita B, Naman Verma, Ranit Mukherjee, Kirti Goyal  
* Matthieu EVRIN, Darshan N, Aryan Shah, Ijeoma Eti, Ritesh Karankal, Lorenzo Croce, Precious Olowookere, Taiwo Sholadoye, shyama7004, Fatma Hashem, Rajesh Nagarajan, Oseni, Gift Benson Abdulhaleem, Himani Sahu

*Sends regrets*

* 

**Standing Agenda: Component Sync**

| CLI | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q63sIGAuCnIeDs8PeM-0BAkNj8BBgPUXhLbe1Y-318o/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Matthieu Ervin) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (*vacant)* |
| ----- | :---- | :---- |
| **UI** | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RlUcr-iLtCFCsV1VZvWD0jBijPJAx-Rk-1GLLsL9sSI/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (*vacant*) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Ian Whitney) |
| *Release in-progress [v0.9.0](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296) [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/6)* |  |  |

### **Announcements:**

* 

[**Help Wanted**](https://github.com/issues?q=is%3Aopen%20is%3Aissue%20archived%3Afalse%20\(org%3Ameshery%20OR%20org%3Aservice-mesh-performance%20OR%20org%3Aservice-mesh-patterns%20OR%20org%3Ameshery-extensions\)%20label%3A%22help%20wanted%22%20) **(244 open issues):** 

### **Topics:**

* \[Aditi Mehta\] \- \[Nighthawk load testing tool updates [\#15026](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/15026)\]  
* \[Shyama7004\] \- docs: fix typos in working-with-designs guide [\#15784](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15784)  
* \[Shyama7004\] \- ci: replace pull\_request\_target with pull\_request in UI/Server GitHub workflow [\#15791](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15791)  
* \[Matthieu EVRIN\]\[mesheryctl\] design list [\#15728](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15728)   
* \[Darshan N\] model generate bug [\#15787](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15787)  
* \[Yash Sharma\] Upcoming Hacktober Planning Discussion  
* \[Lee Calcote\] Playground Provider proposal  
* \[ Aabid \] proposal : A new meshery org  for academy  
* \[Aryan Shah\] Master Design HyperLink in meshery-design-embed [\#PR 527](https://github.com/layer5labs/meshery-extensions-packages/pull/527)  
* \[Ritesh\] support ignored as valid status value in CSV input [\#PR780](https://github.com/meshery/meshkit/pull/780)  
* \[Nikita B\] add events propagation to meshery controller helper [meshery\#15782](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15782)  
* \[Nikita B\] enhance meshkit logger to log caller info  [meshkit\#800](https://github.com/meshery/meshkit/pull/800) and [meshkit\#801](https://github.com/meshery/meshkit/pull/801) and [meshery\#15778](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15778)  
* \[your name\] your agenda item  
* \[your name\] your agenda item  
* \[your name\] your agenda item