### Jan 29th, 2025                                                                                                       

### **Attendees**: 

* Matthieu EVRIN, Vivek Vishal,  Amit Amrutiya, Yash Sharma, Yash Sharma, Anuj Kumar Sharma, Kapil Ramwani  
* *Ijeoma Eti*, Sudhanshu, Godson Sakawa, Sangram Rath, Vidit Kushwaha  
* Rafayel Juwe, Oscar Gonzalez,  
* Aabid  
* *Riya Garg*  
* Ranit Mukherjee, Taiwo Sholadoye 

*Send regrets:* 

* Sovuik, Lee, Pratik Chandra Pal

**Announcements**

* 

**Standing Agenda**

* Component updates: [mesheryctl](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q63sIGAuCnIeDs8PeM-0BAkNj8BBgPUXhLbe1Y-318o/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Matthew), [UI migration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RlUcr-iLtCFCsV1VZvWD0jBijPJAx-Rk-1GLLsL9sSI/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Amit),   
* Release Planning: [Test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0), [v0.9.0](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296) [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/6)

**Topics**

* \[Pratik\] \[mesheryctl\] Fix:  
* *\[your name\] “your agenda item”*  
* \[Kapil\] [https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/12956](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/12956) and further discussion of the UI parts of the problem and server parts. Looking for help with the UI.  
* \[Yash\] Adding a connection ID on the connections page \#[13391](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13391)  
* \[Lee\]   
*  A filetype test utility \#[13392](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13392)  
*  \[provider ui\] initiate move to dark "mode" \#[13390](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13390)  
*  \[Chore\] Deprecation of wrk2 support \#[13349](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13349)  
* \[Octo\]  added routes and business logic for subcategories \#[13389](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13389)  
* \[Lawrence\]  feat: Lifecycle management for meshery-nighthawk \#[13337](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13337)  
* \[Ranit\]  Update regal-lint.yml to apply OPA formatting \#[13365](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13365)  
* *\[Anuj Kumar Sharma\] “\[e2e\] Increase coverage on for extensions page [\#12708](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/12708)”*  
* \[Matthieu\]  \[mesheryctl relationship\] refactoring tests not stored properly \#[13393](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13393)  
* \[Riya Garg\]   
  * \[mesheryctl\] Local Testing for model Import (WIP)  
  * \[Server\] Fixing UI error logs for model import (WIP)  
* \[Yash Sharma\]   
  * Added Org schema in schema repo. [\#217](https://github.com/meshery/schemas/pull/217)  
  * Fix search in registry [\#13402](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13402)  
* \[Sudhanshu\] \- help in few leftover migrations from mui to sistent  
* \[Antonette\]  \-   
* \[Amit\] \- Working on MUI migration [\#13394](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13394) [\#13385](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13385) [\#13384](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13384) [\#13383](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13383) [\#13380](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13380) [\#13379](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13379) [\#13368](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13368) [\#13366](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13366) [\#13354](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13354)  
* \[Ijeoma\] \- Update on the helm kanvas snapshot Readme [\#91](https://github.com/meshery/helm-kanvas-snapshot/pull/91). Upload Helm Kanvas snapshot on artifact hub  
* \[Vidit\]   
  * Fix: Add Flexbox Styling to TextField in Meshery Adapter Selection  [\#13333](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13333)  
* \[Faheem\] \-   
* \[Aabid\]- Extension Bug fixes  
* \[Vivek\] \[call for volunteers\] \[mesheryctl\] add ability to export models as oci image \#[13371](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13371)   
* *\[your name\] “your agenda item”*