docs/pages/project/meshmap/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Extensions
permalink: project/extensions
language: en
display-title: "false"
list: exclude
type: project
---

# <img style="height: 4rem; width: 4rem;" src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/meshmap-icon-color.svg" /> MeshMap <sup style="font-size: 1.8rem; vertical-align: top;">beta</sup>

MeshMap is a GitOps-infused cloud native <b>visual designer</b> for Kubernetes and cloud native applications. MeshMap works with your Kubernetes clusters so that you design and manage your infrastructure and applications between members of your team. MeshMap has two modes: <a>Designer</a> and <a>Visualizer</a>. Create and share your own Kubernetes deployments and patterns in MeshMap Designer. Deploy your designs and manage your infrastructure using MeshMap Visualizer. It combines with feature of multi-user <a>collaboration</a> for cloud native infrastructure so you can team up to move design work forwared, faster. MeshMap removes all the challenging work of collaboration and gets everyone on the same page.

<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/how-meshmap-works">Learn how MeshMap works</a> &emsp; <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/meshmap-features">Explore the features</a> &emsp; <a href="https://meshery.io/integrations">Explore 220+ Built-in integrations &emsp;</a>


### MeshMap For GitOps

MeshMap is a valuable GitOps tool for DevOps teams as it allows them to configure, and manage infrastructure resources. This enables streamlining the process of deploying and undeploying large resources and reduces the time and effort required to set up and maintain environments. Additionally, MeshMap provides features such as visualization, collaboration, and snapshots, which can make cloud native business faster. MeshMap also helps DevOps teams maintain a high level of control, and governance by providing a way to define and manage their infrastructure as code. This reduces human error by overcoming the traditional way of configuring YAMLs and ensures compliance with best practices and industry standards.

### MeshMap For Developers

For developers, MeshMap is valuable as it enables them to manage their infrastructure in an effortless manner. This allows developers to concentrate on coding and delivering features instead of infrastructure management. Furthermore, MeshMap offers efficient management of multiple Kubernetes clusters  and manifests, guaranteeing consistency and up-to-dateness across development, staging, and production environments. This minimizes the potential for errors, workloads, and inconsistencies in the configurations, as it detects clusters automatically. This ensures the infrastructure is always available.

<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/meshmap/meshmap-design.png"><img style="border-radius: 0.5%;" alt="MeshMap Designer" src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/meshmap/meshmap-design.png"  width="100%" align="center"/></a>



<div class="alert alert-dark" role="alert">
<h4 class="alert-heading">Discussion Forum</h4>
Not finding what you're looking for? Ask on the <a href="https://discuss.layer5.io">Discussion Forum</a>.
</div>

Commit message:

add feature documenatation and publish tutorial
Signed-off-by: Gaurav Chadha <gauravchadha1676@gmail.com>

docs/pages/project/meshmap/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Extensions
permalink: project/extensions
language: en
display-title: "false"
list: exclude
type: project
---

# <img style="height: 4rem; width: 4rem;" src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/meshmap-icon-color.svg" /> MeshMap <sup style="font-size: 1.8rem; vertical-align: top;">BETA</sup>

MeshMap is a GitOps-infused cloud native <b>visual designer</b> for Kubernetes and cloud native applications. MeshMap works with your Kubernetes clusters so that you design and manage your infrastructure and applications between members of your team. MeshMap has two modes: <a>Designer</a> and <a>Visualizer</a>. Create and share your own Kubernetes deployments and patterns in MeshMap Designer. Deploy your designs and manage your infrastructure using MeshMap Visualizer. It combines with feature of multi-user <a>collaboration</a> for cloud native infrastructure so you can team up to move design work forwared, faster. MeshMap removes all the challenging work of collaboration and gets everyone on the same page.

### Guide to use MeshMap's features

- <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/publishing-a-design">Publishing a Design</a> - Publish your first design.
- <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/sharing-a-design">Sharing a Design</a> - Share your design with friends.
- <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/design-visibilites">Design Visibilities</a> - Learn about design visiilities.
- <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/cloning-a-design">Cloning a Design</a> - Clone a design from Catalog.
- <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/cloning-a-design">Import a Design</a> - Importing a design from catalog or locally.
- <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/project/extensions/cloning-a-design">Import an application</a> - Importing an application of different types.


### MeshMap For GitOps

MeshMap is a valuable GitOps tool for DevOps teams as it allows them to configure, and manage infrastructure resources. This enables streamlining the process of deploying and undeploying large resources and reduces the time and effort required to set up and maintain environments. Additionally, MeshMap provides features such as visualization, collaboration, and snapshots, which can make cloud native business faster. MeshMap also helps DevOps teams maintain a high level of control, and governance by providing a way to define and manage their infrastructure as code. This reduces human error by overcoming the traditional way of configuring YAMLs and ensures compliance with best practices and industry standards.

### MeshMap For Developers

For developers, MeshMap is valuable as it enables them to manage their infrastructure in an effortless manner. This allows developers to concentrate on coding and delivering features instead of infrastructure management. Furthermore, MeshMap offers efficient management of multiple Kubernetes clusters  and manifests, guaranteeing consistency and up-to-dateness across development, staging, and production environments. This minimizes the potential for errors, workloads, and inconsistencies in the configurations, as it detects clusters automatically. This ensures the infrastructure is always available.

<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/meshmap/meshmap-design.png"><img style="border-radius: 0.5%;" alt="MeshMap Designer" src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/meshmap/meshmap-design.png"  width="100%" align="center"/></a>



<div class="alert alert-dark" role="alert">
<h4 class="alert-heading">Discussion Forum</h4>
Not finding what you're looking for? Ask on the <a href="https://discuss.layer5.io">Discussion Forum</a>.
</div>
