docs/pages/installation/aks.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: AKS
permalink: installation/platforms/aks
type: installation
display-title: "false"
language: en
list: include
image: /assets/img/platforms/aks.svg
---
<h1>Quick Start with {{ page.title }} <img src="{{ page.image }}" style="width:35px;height:35px;" /></h1>

Manage your AKS clusters with Meshery. Deploy Meshery in AKS [in-cluster](#in-cluster-installation) or outside of AKS [out-of-cluster](#out-of-cluster-installation). **_Note: It is advisable to [Install Meshery in your AKS clusters](#install-meshery-into-your-aks-cluster)_**

<div class="prereqs"><p><strong style="font-size: 20px;">Prerequisites</strong> </p> 
  <ol>
    <li>Install the Meshery command line client, <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/installation/mesheryctl" class="meshery-light">mesheryctl</a>.</li>
    <li>Install <a href="https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/">kubectl</a> on your local machine.</li>
    <li>Install <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli">Azure CLI</a>, configured for your environment.</li>
    <li>Access to an active AKS cluster in one of your resource groups.</li>
  </ol>
</div>

Also see: [Install Meshery on Kubernetes]({{ site.baseurl }}/installation/platforms/kubernetes)

## Available Deployment Methods

- [In-cluster Installation](#in-cluster-installation)
  - [Preflight Checks](#preflight-checks)
    - [Preflight: Cluster Connectivity](#preflight-cluster-connectivity)
    - [Preflight: Plan your access to Meshery UI](#preflight-plan-your-access-to-meshery-ui)
  - [Installation: Using `mesheryctl`](#installation-using-mesheryctl)
  - [Installation: Using Helm](#installation-using-helm)
- [Post-Installation Steps](#post-installation-steps)
  - [Access Meshery UI](#access-meshery-ui)

# In-cluster Installation

Follow the steps below to install Meshery in your AKS cluster.

## Preflight Checks

Read through the following considerations prior to deploying Meshery on AKS.

### Preflight: Cluster Connectivity

1. Verfiy you connection to an Azure Kubernetes Services Cluster using Azure CLI.
1. Login to Azure account using [az login](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
1. After a successful login, identify the subscription associated with your AKS cluster:
{% capture code_content %}az account set --subscription [SUBSCRIPTION_ID]{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}
1. After setting the subscription, set the cluster context.
{% capture code_content %}az aks get-credentials --resource-group [RESOURCE_GROUP] --name [AKS_SERVICE_NAME]{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}
1. Verify your kubeconfig's current context.
{% capture code_content %}kubectl cluster-info{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

### Preflight: Plan your access to Meshery UI

1. If you are using port-forwarding, please refer to the [port-forwarding]({{ site.baseurl }}/reference/mesheryctl/system/dashboard) guide for detailed instructions.
2. If you are using a LoadBalancer, please refer to the [LoadBalancer]({{ site.baseurl }}/installation/platforms/kubernetes#exposing-meshery-serviceloadbalancer) guide for detailed instructions.
3. Customize your Meshery Provider Callback URL. Meshery Server supports customizing authentication flow callback URL, which can be configured in the following way:

{% capture code_content %}$ MESHERY_SERVER_CALLBACK_URL=https://custom-host mesheryctl system start{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

Meshery should now be running in your AKS cluster and Meshery UI should be accessible at the `EXTERNAL IP` of `meshery` service.

## Installation: Using `mesheryctl`

Use Meshery's CLI to streamline your connection to your AKS cluster. Configure Meshery to connect to your AKS cluster by executing:

{% capture code_content %}$ mesheryctl system config aks{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

Once configured, execute the following command to start Meshery.

{% capture code_content %}$ mesheryctl system start{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

If you encounter any authentication issues, you can use `mesheryctl system login`. For more information, click [here](/guides/mesheryctl/authenticate-with-meshery-via-cli) to learn more.

## Installation: Using Helm

For detailed instructions on installing Meshery using Helm V3, please refer to the [Helm Installation](/installation/helm) guide.

# Post-Installation Steps

## Access Meshery UI

To access Meshery's UI, please refer to the [instruction](/reference/mesheryctl/system/dashboard) for detailed guidance..

Commit message:

Added system check hyperlink to aks.md
Signed-off-by: Aboobaker Siddiq R <aboobakersiddiq63@gmail.com>

docs/pages/installation/aks.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: AKS
permalink: installation/platforms/aks
type: installation
display-title: "false"
language: en
list: include
image: /assets/img/platforms/aks.svg
---
<h1>Quick Start with {{ page.title }} <img src="{{ page.image }}" style="width:35px;height:35px;" /></h1>

Manage your AKS clusters with Meshery. Deploy Meshery in AKS [in-cluster](#in-cluster-installation) or outside of AKS [out-of-cluster](#out-of-cluster-installation). **_Note: It is advisable to [Install Meshery in your AKS clusters](#install-meshery-into-your-aks-cluster)_**

<div class="prereqs"><p><strong style="font-size: 20px;">Prerequisites</strong> </p> 
  <ol>
    <li>Install the Meshery command line client, <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/installation/mesheryctl" class="meshery-light">mesheryctl</a>.</li>
    <li>Install <a href="https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/">kubectl</a> on your local machine.</li>
    <li>Install <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli">Azure CLI</a>, configured for your environment.</li>
    <li>Access to an active AKS cluster in one of your resource groups.</li>
  </ol>
</div>

Also see: [Install Meshery on Kubernetes]({{ site.baseurl }}/installation/platforms/kubernetes)

## Available Deployment Methods

- [In-cluster Installation](#in-cluster-installation)
  - [Preflight Checks](#preflight-checks)
    - [Preflight: Cluster Connectivity](#preflight-cluster-connectivity)
    - [Preflight: Plan your access to Meshery UI](#preflight-plan-your-access-to-meshery-ui)
  - [Installation: Using `mesheryctl`](#installation-using-mesheryctl)
  - [Installation: Using Helm](#installation-using-helm)
- [Post-Installation Steps](#post-installation-steps)
  - [Access Meshery UI](#access-meshery-ui)

# In-cluster Installation

Follow the steps below to install Meshery in your AKS cluster.

## Preflight Checks

Read through the following considerations prior to deploying Meshery on AKS.

### Preflight: Cluster Connectivity

1. Verfiy you connection to an Azure Kubernetes Services Cluster using Azure CLI.
1. Login to Azure account using [az login](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
1. After a successful login, identify the subscription associated with your AKS cluster:
{% capture code_content %}az account set --subscription [SUBSCRIPTION_ID]{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}
1. After setting the subscription, set the cluster context.
{% capture code_content %}az aks get-credentials --resource-group [RESOURCE_GROUP] --name [AKS_SERVICE_NAME]{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}
1. Verify your kubeconfig's current context.
{% capture code_content %}kubectl cluster-info{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

### Preflight: Plan your access to Meshery UI

1. If you are using port-forwarding, please refer to the [port-forwarding]({{ site.baseurl }}/reference/mesheryctl/system/dashboard) guide for detailed instructions.
2. If you are using a LoadBalancer, please refer to the [LoadBalancer]({{ site.baseurl }}/installation/platforms/kubernetes#exposing-meshery-serviceloadbalancer) guide for detailed instructions.
3. Customize your Meshery Provider Callback URL. Meshery Server supports customizing authentication flow callback URL, which can be configured in the following way:

{% capture code_content %}$ MESHERY_SERVER_CALLBACK_URL=https://custom-host mesheryctl system start{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

Meshery should now be running in your AKS cluster and Meshery UI should be accessible at the `EXTERNAL IP` of `meshery` service.

## Installation: Using `mesheryctl`

Use Meshery's CLI to streamline your connection to your AKS cluster. Configure Meshery to connect to your AKS cluster by executing:

{% capture code_content %}$ mesheryctl system config aks{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

Once configured, execute the following command to start Meshery.

{% capture code_content %}$ mesheryctl system start{% endcapture %}
{% include code.html code=code_content %}

If you encounter any authentication issues, you can use `mesheryctl system login`. For more information, click [here](/guides/mesheryctl/authenticate-with-meshery-via-cli) to learn more.

## Installation: Using Helm

For detailed instructions on installing Meshery using Helm V3, please refer to the [Helm Installation](/installation/helm) guide.

# Post-Installation Steps

## Access Meshery UI

To access Meshery's UI, please refer to the [instruction](/reference/mesheryctl/system/dashboard) for detailed guidance.

Note: _You can also verify health of your system using [mesheryctl system check](/reference/mesheryctl/system/check)_
