docs/pages/guides/meshmodel.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Accessing MeshModel Summary
description: Accessing the MeshModel Summary in settings in Meshery UI
permalink: guides/accessing-meshmodel
type: Guides
language: en
---


### **About MeshModel Summary**


The **MeshModel Browser Summary** gives a brief about all the different types of infrastructure and service meshes that Meshery manages. Meshery models all the different types of infrastructures and service meshes that Meshery manages.  It is quite convenient to look into the configuration of a Model in the Settings Menu while using them. A model has a particular set of components. This feature offers a convenient way for administrators and developers to gain insights into their service mesh deployments at a glance. These model are registered by another systems.

### Steps to access the MeshModel Summary


**Step 1. Access the settings in Meshery UI**


Click on the Settings button in the Meshery UI to access settings menu. The setting menu in Meshery UI provides a bunch of information about things like `Environment`, `Adapters` - that allows Meshery to interface with different service Meshes, `Metrics` and  `MeshModel Summary`. 

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodal.png"><img alt="Settings" style="border-radius: 0.5%;" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodal.png" /></a>


**Step 2. Accessing Meshmodel Summary**


To view **MeshModel Summary**, select the **MeshModel Summary** tab. The summary will appear on your screen.
You will see all Models, Components, and Relationships in the Summary table. You can acccess these models and their components through the [MeshMap extension]({{site.baseurl}}/extensions/meshmap). As these models are registered by another systems, 


<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodel-summary.png"><img alt="MeshModel Summary" style="border-radius: 0.5%;" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodel-summary.png" /></a>

Commit message:

added about model
Signed-off-by: Yana-Gupta <yanagupta897@gmail.com>

docs/pages/guides/meshmodel.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Accessing MeshModel Summary
description: Accessing the MeshModel Summary in settings in Meshery UI
permalink: guides/accessing-meshmodel
type: Guides
language: en
---


### **About MeshModel Summary**


The **MeshModel Browser Summary** gives a brief about all the different types of infrastructure and service meshes that Meshery manages. Meshery models all the different types of infrastructures and service meshes that Meshery manages.  It is quite convenient to look into the configuration of a Model in the Settings Menu while using them. A model has a particular set of components. This feature offers a convenient way for administrators and developers to gain insights into their service mesh deployments at a glance. These model are registered by another systems.

### Steps to access the MeshModel Summary


**Step 1. Access the settings in Meshery UI**


Click on the Settings button in the Meshery UI to access settings menu. The setting menu in Meshery UI provides a bunch of information about things like `Environment`, `Adapters` - that allows Meshery to interface with different service Meshes, `Metrics` and  `MeshModel Summary`. 

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodal.png"><img alt="Settings" style="border-radius: 0.5%;" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodal.png" /></a>


**Step 2. Accessing Meshmodel Summary**


To view **MeshModel Summary**, select the **MeshModel Summary** tab. The summary will appear on your screen.
You will see all Models, Components, and Relationships in the Summary table. You can acccess these models and their components through the [MeshMap extension]({{site.baseurl}}/extensions/meshmap). As these models are registered by another systems, whenever a new request to make changes in model are created, those are sent to the systems those have regsitered those models.


<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodel-summary.png"><img alt="MeshModel Summary" style="border-radius: 0.5%;" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/meshmodel/settings-meshmodel-summary.png" /></a>
