### Feb 5th, 2025                                                                                                       

### **Attendees**: 

* Vivek Vishal,Anuj Kumar Sharma, Kapil Ramwani,Faheem Mushtaq, Weili Li  
* Matthieu EVRIN,  Amit Amrutiya, Pranjal Rajput, Ijeoma Eti, Ranit Mukherjee, Pratik Chandra Pal, Yash Sharma  
* Saikiran Somanagoudar,, Vidit Kushwaha, Aabid Sofi, Arpit Srivastava,Rafayel Juwe  
* Riya Garg,Oscar Gonzalez  
* Amit Karnam, K S Mahadevan, Sangram Rath

*Send regrets: ,*

* Antonette (out of office), Sudhanshu Dasgupta, 

**Announcements**

* Rename the Slack workspace.  
* Creation of new Meshery Youtube channel?  
* Creation of new git repo: meet.meshery.io

**Standing Agenda**

* Component updates: [mesheryctl](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q63sIGAuCnIeDs8PeM-0BAkNj8BBgPUXhLbe1Y-318o/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Matthew), [UI migration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RlUcr-iLtCFCsV1VZvWD0jBijPJAx-Rk-1GLLsL9sSI/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Amit),   
* Release Planning: [Test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0), [v0.9.0](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296) [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/6)

**Topics**

* \[Kapil\] Update on [\#13405](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13405).   
  * We have the first panel working.   
  * Need  advice on the structuring of the PR.  
* \[Yash Sharma\]  \- State of API end-to-end testing in local provider  
* \[Lawrence\]: Lifecycle management for meshery-nighthawk [\#13337](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13337)  
* \[Matthieu\]  \[mesheryctl\]   
  * relationship command cleanup [\#13450](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13450)  
  * Bug in system reset [\#13477](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13477)  
* \[Ashish kumar\] \[mesheryctl\] org command ready for merge.  
* \[Pranjal\]   
  * Fix: Resolved Actions Button Misbehavior \#[13412](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13412)  
  * Fix: Placeholder Overlap in TextField [\#13468](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13468)  
  * Fix: the alignment issue of checkboxes in the Environments card [\#13470](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13470)  
* \[Riya Garg\]   
  * Refactor design import [\#13476](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13476)  
  * Error logs for non importable files, shifting error logs to server [\#13420](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13420) (WIP) \- solves [\#13413](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13413) (replace hard coded error messages) and [\#13143](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13143) (error logs for non importable files)  
* \[Ngan Phan\] Enhance mesheryctl to Update Existing Components and Models from Local CSV Directory \#[13461](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13461)  
* \[Souvik\] \-   
  * Fix: file and component processed multiple times during mesheryctl registry generate [\#668](https://github.com/meshery/meshkit/pull/668)  
  * Added extensive logging in mesheryctl registry to generate command [\#13480](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13480)  
* \[Ijeoma\] \- \[Docs\] Remove \-n flag from Helm Kanvas snapshot docs [\#13483](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13483)  
* \[Faheem\] \- Integrate Sistent Theme to Provider UI && Working on Notification Component Design  
* \[Aabid\]- Rename operator crds [13479](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13479)   
*             \-  Update provider / extension hardcoding in code [13475](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13475)  
* \[Ranit\] \- Update on Issues [\#13270](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13270), [\#13350](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/13350) (Need Advice)  
* *\[Anuj Kumar Sharma\] \- \[e2e\] \- increased test coverage on extensions page [\#12708](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/12708)”*  
* \[Amit\]- Working on MUI migration  
* \[Vidit Kushwaha\] \- Consistent Qanelas font usage across meshery [\#13484](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13484)  
* \[Vivek\] \[call for volunteers\] Meshery Incubation tasks  
* \[Saikiran Somanagoudar\] \-   
  * fix: add eslint installation commands in Dockerfile to resolve build errors [\#13361](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/13361/commits)  
    \- Need advice on installing eslint before production build starts  
* *\[your name\] \- “your agenda item”*  
* *\[your name\] \- “your agenda item”*  
* *\[your name\] \- “your agenda item”*