### July 9th, 2025

### **Attendees**: 

* Yash Sharma  Gift Benson, Lee Calcote,   
* Sai ??? Thirumal, Faheem Mushtaq, Varad Gupta, Manoj Tirukovela,Zihan Kuang, Wyllie Fang  
* Oluwasanmisola Charles, Pratik Chandra Pal, Ronak, Aditi Mehta, Kirti Goyal  
* Naman Verma, Ijeoma Eti, Shashaank Srivastava, Krishna Shukla, Darshan n,


**Standing Agenda: Component Sync**

| CLI | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q63sIGAuCnIeDs8PeM-0BAkNj8BBgPUXhLbe1Y-318o/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Matthieu Ervin) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (*vacant)* |
| ----- | :---- | :---- |
| **UI** | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RlUcr-iLtCFCsV1VZvWD0jBijPJAx-Rk-1GLLsL9sSI/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (*vacant*) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Ian Whitney) |
| *Release in-progress [v0.9.0](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296) [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/6)* |  |  |

### **Topics:**

* \[Rishi Raj\] Added missing VerticalPodAutoscaler icon and fixed icon flicker  \#15324  
* \[Zihan Kuang\] Meshery UI File Import and Drag & Drop Support Matrix [\#15334](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/15334)   
* \[Ronak\] Skips CRDs installations issue \#14403 , \#14402 and \#[15402](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/155402)  
* \[Krishna Shukla\] Review for PR [\#15155](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15155) and [\#15249](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15249) .  
* \[Darshan N\] Review for pr [\#15315](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15315)  
* \[Aditi Mehta\] Meshery Makefile update [\#15103](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/15103)  
* \[Sai Thirumal\] \- Define and relocate model template files \- [\#15312](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15312)  
* \[Varad Gupta\] Cloud Cost Control Page \- [\#6618](https://github.com/layer5io/layer5/pull/6618)  
* \[Wyllie Fang\] \- Overlapping CSS Issues and Layout Conflicts on HandBook page [PR \#6615](https://github.com/layer5io/layer5/pull/6615)  
* \[Faheem Mushtaq\] fix: Missing Actions menu item in smaller window sizes [\#3809](https://github.com/layer5labs/meshery-extensions/pull/3809)  
  		    \- improve: add new rss feed for meshery posts in gatsby.  
  		   \- add: Add HelperText support to Leave Org modal [\#3746](https://github.com/layer5io/meshery-cloud/pull/3746)  
* \[Yash\]   
  * KubeCon NA talk and contribfest submitted  
  * Got update from Civo for marketplace, they will review PR  
* \[Nikita B\] Updates to connections schema [\#15245](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15245)  
* \[Ijeoma \] remove category data from component column \#[15280](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15280)