### September 24th, 2025

### **Attendees**:

* ### Lee Calcote, Aabid Sofi, Naman Verma, Aryan Shah,Wyllie Fang, darshan , Mohammed Babbili,Chetan Jangir, Anik Bardhan

* Matthieu EVRIN, Himani Sahu, Ranit Mukherjee, Ritesh Karankal

###  **Standing Agenda: Component Sync**

| CLI | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q63sIGAuCnIeDs8PeM-0BAkNj8BBgPUXhLbe1Y-318o/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Matthieu Ervin) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (*vacant)* |
| ----- | :---- | :---- |
| **UI** | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RlUcr-iLtCFCsV1VZvWD0jBijPJAx-Rk-1GLLsL9sSI/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (*vacant*) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Ian Whitney) |
| *Release in-progress [v0.9.0](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296) [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/6)* |  |  |

###  **Announcements:**

* [Hacktober Fest 2025](https://layer5.io/community/events/hacktoberfest-prep-2025-design-with-meshery)   
* [Help Wanted](https://github.com/issues?q=is%3Aopen%20is%3Aissue%20archived%3Afalse%20\(org%3Ameshery%20OR%20org%3Aservice-mesh-performance%20OR%20org%3Aservice-mesh-patterns%20OR%20org%3Ameshery-extensions\)%20label%3A%22help%20wanted%22%20) (244 open issues)

### **Topics:**

* \[Babbili\] \- Fix Meshery Helm chart installation [\#15836](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15836)  
                 \- \[k8s\] Create K8s Health Probes for `meshery` [\#15874](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15874)  
* \[Junaid Ali\] \- Fix all the connection chips that were using hardcoded logos instead of actual connection. [\#15867](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15867)  
* \[Darshan N\] \- Contributor Training series: Creating Relationships in Meshery, [training series deck](https://meshery.io/talks-and-trainings)  
* \[Aboobaker Siddiq \- Feat: add a subcommand to deploy only required component into k8s [\#15876](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/15876)  
  Feat: Add documentation to resolve out of cluster connectivity issue [\#15864](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15864)  
* \[Ritesh Karankal\] \- Hacktoberfest Prep 2025 \- [Organizerâ€™s Meet](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/organizer-s-meeting-for-hacktoberfest-prep-2025/7505)  
* \[Aryan Shah\] \- Issues for hacktober fest [\#](https://github.com/layer5io/docs/issues)  
* \[Wyllie Fang\] \- \[Draft\]  Created Academy Content Template Creator Guide with the creation of a Meshery Contributors certification as an example [\#](https://github.com/layer5io/docs/pull/820)  
* \[Aabid Sofi\] : State of Meshery Dashboard extensibility with widgets  
                       \- leveraging organizations and workspaces within meshery  
    
* \[Naman Verma\] : Edit Organization Modal Update