### June 18th, 2025

### **Attendees**: 

* Yash Sharma, Vivek Vishal, Lee Calcote, Nikita B, Zihan Kuang, Rahul Rudra  
* Faheem Mushtaq,Krishna Shukla, Nitish C,Ronak, Yogendar Singh, Shreyas ,Naman Verma, Ayush Chauhan,Zihan Kuang, ,Ranit Mukerjee, kirti goyal,Yujun Liu  
* Rafayel Juwe, Varad Gupta, Thirumal, Pratik Chandra Pal


  
*Send regrets:* 

* *Madina A.*

**Standing Agenda: Component Sync**

| CLI | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q63sIGAuCnIeDs8PeM-0BAkNj8BBgPUXhLbe1Y-318o/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Matthieu Ervin) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (??) |
| ----- | :---- | :---- |
| **UI** | [development](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RlUcr-iLtCFCsV1VZvWD0jBijPJAx-Rk-1GLLsL9sSI/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (*vacant*) | [test plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ir4gfaKoAX9r8qYjAFFl_U9ntke4X5ndREY1T7bnVs/edit?gid=0#gid=0) (Ian Whitney) |
| *Release in-progress [v0.9.0](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/meshery-v0-9-roadmap/6296) [GitHub Milestone](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/milestone/6)* |  |  |

[**Contributor Training Schedule**](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/14090)**: [Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL3A-A6hPO2IPQXGjJQ6GmGW10spdfoQeW)**

| \# | Topic and Component | Technology | Trainer | Date |
| :---: | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| 1 | [Contributing to Meshery Docs](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/contributing-docs) | Hugo, Jekyll, Markdown, HTML, CSS | Zihan Kuang | [April 10th](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/newcomers-meeting-contributing-to-meshery-docs-april-10-2025/6885) |
| 2 | [End-to-end Testing in Meshery CLI](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/contributing-cli-tests) | Bash (BATS | Riya Garg | [April 17th](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/newcomers-meeting-end-to-end-testing-in-meshery-cli-using-bats-april-17-2025/6897?u=vishalvivekm) |
| 3 | [Contributing to Meshery Build and Release](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/build-and-release) | CI / CD, GitHub Workflows | Sangram Rath | [April 24th](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/newcomers-meeting-contributor-training-session-meshery-ci-cd-april-24th-2025/6912) |
| 4 | [Contributing to Meshery CLI](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/contributing-cli) | Golang, Cobra | Matthieu Evrin, Aadhitya | [April 30th](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/development-meeting-contributing-to-meshery-cli-april-30-2025/6927) |
| 5 | [End-to-end Testing in Meshery UI](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/contributing-ui-tests#:~:text=To%20automate%20functional%20integration%20and,not%20break%20the%20existing%20functionality.) | Playwright | Ian Whitney | [May 8th](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/contributor-training-session-e2e-testing-in-meshery-ui-may-8th-2025/6948) |
| 6 | [Contributing to Meshery UI](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/contributing-ui) | React, Sistent, CASL, Schema-driven for UI | Amit Amrutiya | [May 15th](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/contributor-training-session-meshery-ui-may-15th-2025/6949/2) |
| 7 | [Contributing to Meshery Server](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/contributing-server) | Golang, Gorilla, OpenAPI Schema | Shlok Mishra | [May 29th](https://discuss.layer5.io/t/contributor-training-session-meshery-server-may-29th-2025/6986) |
| 8 | [Contributing to Meshery Models](https://docs.meshery.io/project/contributing/contributing-models) | All cloud native tech | Aabid Sofi | June 19th |

**Announcements:**

* [Welcome LFX Interns for 2025 Summer](https://x.com/mesheryio/status/1934716336099237892)  
  ![][image1]  
* \[Training sessions\]   
* [Understanding Meshery Models June 19th](https://x.com/mesheryio/status/1934336911705051275), 9 AM CT, [meet.meshery.io](https://meet.meshery.io)  
* Understanding components Relationships 


**Topics:**

* \[Nikita B\] \- Flush meshsync functionality fixes: [\#15004](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15004) and [\#15008](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15008) ;  
* \[Rahul Rudra \] \- UI:Capitalize labels, adjust font size and color: [\#15088](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15088)  
* \[Rahul Rudra\] \-TypeScript Migration : [\#14830](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/14830)   
* \[Ranit Mukherjee\] \-TypeScript Migration : Phase 1 & 2: [\#15037](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15037)  
* \[Yash Sharma\] KubeCon China Talk Updates \- [YT link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dIQHNKNlBjs)  
* \[Tharanishwaran\]    
* Fix : "Duplicates" toggle in Registry UI not working as expected \#[15107](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15107)   
*  \[mesheryctl\] Add detailed component logging to registry generate command \#[15091](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15091)   
* \[Yujun Liu\]  added feature Org Id validation check before create workspace \#[15076](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15076)  
* \[Faheem Mushtaq\] \- fix: user-profile edit button is not working , pushes user to identity page [\#3636](https://github.com/layer5io/meshery-cloud/pull/3636)  
  \-\[bug\]:actions buttons in Organizations not working for org role && not visible for all roles [\#3639](https://github.com/layer5io/meshery-cloud/pull/3639)  
* \[Priyansh Sao\]  \[mesheryctl\] Format error message for mesheryctl system start \-p \<invalid platform\> \#[15046](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15046)   
* \[Yogendar Singh\]: Updates on relationship  
* \[Aditi Mehta\]  Update Meshery Makefile \#[15105](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15105)   
* \[Ronak\]  \[Helm\] Meshery Installation: New flag to allow installation of Meshery w/o CRDs \#[15045](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15045)   
* \[Shreyas\] Making Adapter interface use generic terms (Mesh \-\> Adapter) \#[15039](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15039)  
* \[Pranjal Kole\]  mesheryctl: stop spinner on error \#[15038](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15038)   
* \[Madina Amankeldinova\]  
* \[Zihan Kuang\] fix: Unify version display for public and private designs [\#1081](https://github.com/layer5io/sistent/pull/1081)  
* \[Aabid Sofi\] : Remote Provider Support for events implemented   
* \[Vivek Vishal\] fix:  update SettingsIcon with workspaceIcon similar to org switcher \#[15098](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15098)  
* \[Varad Gupta\] Fix: k8 and Setting Icon Fix [\#15110](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/15110)  
* \[Ronak\] Issue\#14402: Add a new flag to install meshery w/o CRDs  
* \[your name here\] \- your topic here  
*